


WELCOME TO BY MAGIC THE GATHERING DECKBUILDER APP!!!!

This document is meant to help you understand the app's functionality, and help you test and grade it as someone who may not know anything about Magic: The Gathering.

------------------------------------- Feature Tutorial ------------------------------------


When you first open the app, this menu will be basically empty with the exception of a "new deck" button. Go ahead and click on that button, it will instantly create a new deck. This will create a new deck for you to freely edit! The deck has a few properties you may wanna be aware of. The most obvious is its name, but less obvious is the "WIP" below it. This is to show that no current gameplay format is assigned to this deck. Magic has tons of different gameplay formats that change how you play the game and thusly, build decks.

Before we start making out deck, let's make it more to our liking. By clicking on the gear icon in the top left, we can change our deck's properties, or delete it, but let's not do that right now.

The first option can let you change the deck's name as you wish, so go ahead and do that. Give it a cool name. But since I'm kinda railroading you here with what we're doing. Name it "Undead Overrun". 

Next, change the deck's format to "Commander". Commander is Magic's most popular gameplay format due to its 4-player action and it's inclusion of the "Commander", which is a single legendary creature used to helm your deck!

Now that you're done, click out of the menu and tap on our deck to start editing!



Now that you've opened the deck editor, you'll notice that our deck's name is located at the top. This is an editible text field btw, you can change your deck's name again if you want.

Below it are the card count and the average mana value. The card count keeps track of the number of cards in your main board and will notify you by turning red if it goes over the maximum deck size. The average mana cost will also change depending on the average mana value of mainboard spells. That probably means nothing to you, but just know that it's important.

You can go back to the main menu with the back arrow button, or save your deck with the floppy disk icon. Yes I know what a floppy disk is.

If you click on the (-) and (+) buttons, you'll notice they don't do anything. We'll come back to that in a bit.


As you can see, our deck is very empty. So let's add some cards to make it our own!



To start adding cards to our cool deck, swipe to the right, this will slide you over to the scryfall deck searcher.

In the search bar, type "Wilhelt, the Rotcleaver". Try not to make any typos. He will be our commander. To add him to the deck, hover over him and click the plus button. (I am aware this won't work on mobile phones, this is just what I'm using at the moment).



Swipe back to our deck editor and you'll see Wilhelt in our deck! He's currently under the creature section, which makes sense, because he's a creature. However, we want him to be our commander, so hover over him and click the box with an arrow in it. This will open a new submenu that gives you more card options. Click "Set as Commander".

Now, Wilhelt is our commander! Make sure to save the program so that our precious progress isn't lost.


Let's swipe back to the card search. We need to add some zombies to our zombie commander deck, so type in "Type:Zombie" in the search bar. This will show all creatures that have the subtype of zombie. Nifty right?

Now, if you scroll down a bit, you'll see Ahn-Crop Invader, a red zombie. Now, Wilhelt is black and blue, so we can't play red cards in our deck. To filter out the colors we don't want, we can click on the mana icons in the top. Click on the White (sun), Red (fire), and Green (tree), mana symbols at the top to filter them out. Now the only cards that show up are cards that we can put in our deck! 

You may also notice, alot of these cards suck. Well, you didn't, you don't know how to evaluate Magic cards, but trust me these suck. Anurid Murkdiver, a 6 mana 4/3 with Swampwalk? Let's sort out the chaff. If you click on the dropdown box that says "Name", you'll see a lot of different options, click on "EDHRec rank". This will sort our search by popular cards according to the website EDHRec. If you scroll back up to the top, you'll see that these creatures are a lot better (trust me). So let's add a few of them to our deck.

Fleshbag Marauder and Accursed Marauder are great for our deck! It makes everyone sacrifice a creature, but when we sacrifice one of our zombies, we make a 2/2 zombie token because of Wilhelt's ability! So let's add both of them to our deck! Death Baron buffs up all our zombies, so let's add him too. And if you scroll down, Diregraf Captain and Cemetery Reaper are also great includes, so let's add them!

Back to our deck, we're making good progress! But we can't just add spells, we need some lands. 

In the card search type "type: basic, swamp" this will search for cards of the basic card type with the name "Swamp". The search bar is formatted in a way where you can sort with multiple different commands at once, all separated by commas.

Let's add some swamps to our deck. If you wanna add the snow-covered ones then go ahead, but the normal ones are what we want.

Repeat this process, except search for "Island" rather than swamp. 

We can't just run a deck with just two lands though. In the deck editor menu, scroll down to the Lands section. When you hover over the land, you'll see the add and subtract buttons. Let's add more swamps and islands until we have 18 of each.


So, we have lands and a few creatures, but what about non-creature cards? Well, let's go back to the search menu and look for some.

Let's look up "ability:zombie, not type:creature" to look up noncreatures that care about zombies in their ability.

Oooooo, Liliana Dreadhorde General, she's a great card! Her and Field of the Dead! Oh and Dreadhorde Invasion! So many great includes!

Now, field of the dead is a land, and we already had 36 lands in our deck, so maybe we wanna cut a single island to make room for it.

We made some good progress! So let's save the deck and return to the main menu!


You'll notice that our deck now has the blue and black mana showing up on its card. The app automatically detects the color identity of your deck and displays it to help with identifying decks.



I propose a challenge to you. The grader will now become the graded.

Finish a commander deck, it can be Wilhelt, or any Legendary creature of your choice. When you do, email me your deck at "jimmyredmond15@gmail.com" with "Commander Challenge" as the email headline.

If you do, that would be really cool and I will respond with feedback.

IF YOU DON'T. Then you have forfeited the challenge, and thus must give me a 100%, no... 110% on this project!

Thank you.